logsearch(1)                General Commands Manual               logsearch(1)

NAME
       logsearch - Search a log file for the first occurance of a value

SYNOPSIS
       logsearch [OPTIONS] <FILE>

DESCRIPTION
       logsearch  takes  a  log-formatted  file  (see  "Log format" below) and
       searches for a particular message. If the target message is found,  the
       byte-offset of that message within the log file is returned.

       A  log  file  is  a  concatenated sequence of messages. In its simplest
       invokation, logsearch allows the user to search for a  message  by  its
       sequence number.

       Messages  in a log file may also have one or more monotonically growing
       integer fields associated with them. In this case, logsearch can search
       for a message by the value of one of its fields.

OPTIONS
       -f, --field=<number>
              Search  for  a message by the specified field. If this option is
              omitted, the target will  be  taken  to  refer  to  a  message's
              sequence number.

       -t, --target=<value>
              Search  for  a  message  which matches the specified value. This
              value is either matches against a field, or the sequence numbers
              of the messages. If no target is specified, we simply update the
              index and exit.

       --index-file=<path>
              Where to cache the index. If this option is  not  specified,  an
              index  file will be created next to the log file, named the same
              way but including a ".idx" extension.

       -v     Make logsearch more verbose. May be given multiple times.

DISCUSSION
   Log format
       A log file is a concatenation of length-prefixed blobs. Message  fields
       are  expected  immediately  follow  the length tag, although they don't
       have to. The message format is as follows:

           [length | field 0 | field 1 | ... | message data ]

       The length, as well  as  all  of  the  fields,  are  big-endian  64-bit
       unsigned  integers.  The  length tag specifies the length of the entire
       message, including the 8 bytes taken by the length tag itself.

       In order for a field to be searchable, the user  must  ensure  that  it
       increases monotonically through the log file. Non-monotonic fields will
       not be detected at search time - logsearch will simply return the  off‐
       set of some message.

   Index files
       When  searching  a  log file, logsearch first creates an index which is
       caches in a file. The name of the index file is the  same  as  the  log
       file  being  searched, with a ".idx" extension added. These index files
       are purely for speeding up future searches in the same log, and can  be
       safely  deleted.   However, note that when a log file is very large and
       not in the OS page cache, the existence of an  index  file  may  become
       important for reasonable performance.

   Changing log files
       Blah append only blah

EXAMPLES
       Tailing a remote log file, starting at a particular message:

           ssh logserver -- tail --bytes=+$(logsearch -t 1000) --follow

                                                                  logsearch(1)
